To create our own functions, we will need a very precise syntax.
The main element will be the def keyword.
This word tells Python.
What I'm going to write is a function and you can think of the meaning of def as definition of a function.
Next, we write the name.
We choose for the function that we are going to create.
It can be any word or words you choose, and by convention we always write them with lowercase letters
and underscores instead of spaces.
Then comes a pair of parentheses that will be empty, or we will use to pass parameters depending on
the case.
But for now, let's just leave them like that.
And finally, a colon.
This tells Python everything that follows is inside the function and is part of its code as long as
it is tabbed to the right of the word def.
Then what follows is not mandatory code, but it is part of having good habits, and that is to write
an explanation of what the function does.
Enclose in three quotes before and after the text.
Every time you use the three single quotes, you can write a descriptive text that is not going to be
executed.
It serves so that anyone, even you can easily find out in human language what that function does.
And then you write the code that you want to be executed every time you call for this function.
So how do you write a function and how do you execute it?
Every time we write anywhere in our code, the name of the function and its parentheses.
Python will execute whatever is inside our function.
Now let's pay attention to the parentheses.
As I said, you can use the parentheses to add a parameter or an argument to your function.
For example, here I pass a parameter name.
This is a kind of internal variable I could have put any word, but here I called it name.
Although at the moment of writing my function I still do not know what the value of the parameter is
going to be.
I can use it so that whatever its content is later, I can invoke it from any place inside the function,
for example, to concatenate it with my string here.
If then at the moment of invoking the function that I put inside its parentheses of value, for example,
James, I am giving content to the variable name that is going to be able to use it in the concatenation.
And now the result of my function is going to be, Hello, James, print it on the screen for now.
I'm keeping it super simple and to make sure we all understand this easily, but we'll see that this
approach provides infinite and very, very useful applications in the future.
Let's look at this same example, but on the black screen so you can apply it all by yourself as well.
And while the introduction was long, it was necessary.
So let's start by writing our function with the key word def as we have just learned, you see that
this is painted red because it is a key word.
So next I can create any name I want.
For example, greet, underscore person.
This is the name I want to give to my function.
Remember that?
Then put the closing and opening parenthesis.
I'm not going to put anything in them right now.
And finally, a colon.
Once I hit enter, this is going to create an indentation.
Remember, this is very important because if you type from the initial line, you're going to tell Python,
I've already exited the function and all this following stuff I'm typing is not inside of it.
So once we're inside our function, we can type, as I told you, three single quotes and let's go write
a multi linear, non executable message.
As you can see, it also gives me an automatically the word return.
But we're going to see later on what we're going to use it for.
Right now, I'm going to delete it.
Okay.
What we write here is a free comment.
I can say something like this function is used to greet people.
This comment may have one or more lines because when you write these three single quotes, you can continue
writing here another line and remember that this is a good habit.
It allows eventual users of your code or even yourself to understand what this function is going to
be used for.
If you read your code again six months later or a year from now.
This way you can easily remember what you used all this for.
If you want to make one line Python comments, you can just type the numeral sign and then whatever
you want.
This function is good for something and this code, whether it's between the three quotes or in the
numeral, it's not going to be executed.
For this example, let's just leave it without any comment.
Okay.
Now to the body of our function.
Let's put in some execution line.
Print is a good choice and we're going to show the message.
Hello.
So this is my function.
I can exit it going back to the initial line.
And if I run this, then nothing happens.
Why?
Even though this print exists, it's inside a function.
And this would be as if it were the definition.
Hence the word def.
But we're not invoking it yet.
Just like the methods.
Although they are defined somewhere in the code, out of our view, they're only executed when we call
them.
In the case of this function, we defined it, but we didn't call it.
So my code does nothing.
Then let's call this function by his name.
Greet.
Notice that it already exists.
Person.
Now if I execute it, it says hello.
Because here what I'm doing is saying execute this function and do everything inside it.
Amazing.
Let's move forward.
We also saw that we can pass parameters inside the parenthesis that follows the function name.
Parameters are some information that the function receives at the moment of being called to use that
information inside its code.
So if I want my function to receive parameters, we do it this way.
We put here the name of a variable, for example, name that right now does not make any sense for Python
because I'm creating a variable that later my code does not use and that is why it paints it in gray.
But then here, after the hello message, let's put a space and let's concatenate with name.
What's the value of name?
At the moment of defining our variable, we don't know yet its value.
It will be loaded at the moment of calling this function.
So you'll see this in a minute.
So if I run it now, nothing is going to happen and it's going to give me an error because the invocation
of the function greet person now needs a parameter because we modified its definition.
Since I'm not passing it, this error tells me that I'm calling it in a wrong way.
The definition of the function requires a parameter now, so that's what we're going to do here at the
moment of calling it.
We're going to pass any name like Frank.
We execute it again and now it says, Hello, Frank.
So the dynamic is you pass it from here, a content that receives a variable and passes it to the code.
So why do we need that?
It is with a variable so that this can be different in different situations.
This makes it reusable because it's flexible.
Now if I call greet person again, but I pass Walter, it repeats it again, but this time it applies
it to Walter.
In the next lecture, we're going to be looking to learn one more missing element to fully understand
the true usefulness and flexibility that functions allow.
So don't miss it.
And of course, after the exercise that you will have next, because this has a lot to unwrap.
So I'll be waiting for you right after that.